# Master Thesis
This study used a Markov model to create synthetic data for BLE packet data. This repository contains the programs used in this study.

This research expanded the S. R. Saxer, “Dataset generation and feature extraction for high-traffic environment personal tracker identification ,” Bachelor's thesis, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland, 2024. In addition, the program created by Stefan was used partially.

The GitHub repositly of Stefan is https://github.com/stsaxe/Bachelor-Thesis-Stefan-Richard-Saxer.

**NOTE: This program was run in Python version 3.12.**

## data_for_markov_model
The data used for synthetic data generation with the Markov model and the synthetic data created.
- **processed_SmartTag_(nearby).csv**: The data used as the basis for the synthetic data. This data has been preprocessed. The raw data is "./stefan/data/csv/SmartTag/SmartTag_(nearby).csv"
- **synthetic_data_mm_SmartTag_(nearby).csv**: The synthetic data generated by the Markov model.

## evaluation
Figures and tables of the evaluation results of synthetic data are stored.
- **confidence_level**: Diagrams showing the confidence level of the model.
- **confusion_matrix**: Diagrams showing the confusion matrix.
- **confusion_report**: CSV files showing the scores.
- **structure**: Comparison of original and synthetic data structures.
- **training_data_size**: Figure showing the relationship between training data size and accuracy.

## notebooks
Programs used to create and evaluate synthetic data.
- **analysing_data_structure.ipynb**: Compare the structure of synthetic data with that of original data.
- **generating_synthetic_data_markov.ipynb**: Generate the synthetic data using the Markov model.
- **inferring_with_synthetic_data_markov.ipynb**: Apply the model trained using synthetic data generated by the Markov model to real data. Parts of this program use code created by Stefan, which is noted in the corresponding cells through comments.
- **modeling_with_synthetic_data_markov.ipynb**: Train the model using the synthetic data generated by the Markov model. Parts of this program use code created by Stefan, which is noted in the corresponding cells through comments.
- **preparing_data_markov.ipynb**: Prepare the data by applying preprocessing to the raw data. This data was used as a basis for the synthetic data generation. arts of this program use code created by Stefan, which is noted in the corresponding cells through comments.

### Order of Execution
preparing_data_markov -> generating_synthetic_data_markov -> modeling_with_synthetic_data_markov -> analysing_data_structure -> inferring_with_synthetic_data_markov

## pickle_for_markov_model
Pickel objects of models and scalers were saved using synthetic data created by the Markov model as training data.

## presentation
Presentation slides used in the mid-term and final presentations.

## state_transition_diagram
State transition diagram created when creating the synthetic data using the Markov modelj

## stefan

A program created by Stefan. The repository link is https://github.com/stsaxe/Bachelor-Thesis-Stefan-Richard-Saxer. In this research, the model created without synthetic data and the synthetic data generated by Stefan was used.

In some parts of the program, file names and paths were modified. These modifications are noted in the corresponding cells through comments.

Refer to the README in Stefan's repository for explanations of each program. This document focuses exclusively on the programs included in the notebooks directory.

- **Inference.ipynb**: Applying a model without synthetic data to real data.
- **InferenceWithSyntheticData.ipynb**: Applying a model with synthetic data to real data.
- **Modeling.ipynb**: Building a model without synthetic data.
- **ModelingWithSyntheticData.ipynb**: Building a model with synthetic data.
- **SyntheticDataGeneration.ipynb**: Synthetic data generation. Stefan created synthetic data by duplicating a subset of real data that was misclassified as SmartTag (nearby).

NOTE: The data is too huge to upload to the GitHub. You can find the data on Kaggle. https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/stefansaxer/ble-packets-from-tracking-devices

### Order of Execution
Modeling -> Inference -> SyntheticDataGeneration -> ModelingWithSyntheticData -> InferenceWithSyntheticData